Welcome to JW Broadcasting.
In this month's program, we'll see how much the Bible can improve our lives,
how it can save us from lasting harm,
how it can help us to get along with one another,
and how it reassures us that even if we stumble,
Jehovah will help us find our way back.
From the life of John the Baptist,
we'll learn how to cope with fear,
rejoice when others are blessed,
and maintain a positive attitude even when facing problems.
We'll see from Brother Gordon McKay's experience
that Jehovah wants us to draw close to him,
even if we've had a serious spiritual setback.
And our newest music video extends a warm invitation to all
who find themselves estranged from Jehovah
and his imperfect but faithful family.
It reminds us of what a wonderful blessing our spiritual home is.
This is the February 2024 edition of JW Broadcasting.
When I was young, one of my favorite desserts
was my mother's sweet potato pie.
It always tasted the same.
To me, it was perfect every time.
I'd often ask her,
what do you put in here to make it taste so good?
She'd always respond,
I just use the same stuff every time.
In other words, number one, she wasn't going to tell me,
and two, she had a recipe that worked,
so she never changed it.
Well, the Bible is like a cookbook,
full of recipes that work,
that can make our life spiritually successful.
Please note how Paul explains the benefits of these recipes
at 2 Timothy, chapter 3, verses 16 and 17.
All scripture is inspired of God
and beneficial for teaching,
for reproving, for setting things straight,
for disciplining and righteousness,
so that the man of God may be fully competent,
completely equipped for every good work.
Sometimes the recipe from God's inspired word
comes in a form of a Bible example.
As we study that example,
we extract qualities and attitudes that we can imitate.
Other times, there's a list of qualities,
such as the various aspects of the fruitage of God's spirit,
mentioned in Galatians chapter 5,
or the list of positive things to consider
at Philippians 4, 8, and 9.
And of course, there are numerous Bible principles
that we can use to help us make good decisions.
Meditating on and applying these principles,
qualities, and examples can be a recipe
that contributes to spiritual success.
Let's consider one example.
It's recorded in 1 Peter 3 and verse 8.
Take note of the ingredients.
All of you have unity of mind,
fellow feeling, brotherly affection,
tender compassion, and humility.
This is a recipe of five beautiful qualities
that contribute to our spiritual success.
How so?
Let's discuss the ingredients.
Peter first mentions unity of mind.
The footnote says,
think in agreement.
So we must think in agreement with one another,
but especially with Jehovah and his organization.
In what way?
The latter part of Isaiah 35 says,
your strength will be in keeping calm and showing trust.
That's exactly what the faithful slave has done.
So let us have unity of mind with them
and have the same calmness and confidence in Jehovah
as we face personal challenges in our life.
In 2 Kings chapter 4,
a shoot of my woman is mentioned
who had confidence in the prophet Elisha.
She suffered a terrible tragedy in her life.
Yet she remained calm
and showed trust in the man of the true God Elisha.
Her example of trust in Jehovah's representative
is worthy of invitation.
In fact, there is an expression she uses in chapter 4
that conveys the level of trust we want to have in Jehovah
and his earthly representatives today.
Let me tell you about this woman.
She and her husband lived in Shunum.
Elisha would regularly make encouraging visits with them
when he was in that city.
Elisha appreciated their hospitality
and wanted to do something kind for them.
What would he do?
Well, verses 14 through 16 of 2 Kings chapter 4
indicate that she did not have a son
and her husband was old.
So Elisha told her that the next year
she would be embracing a son.
Well, as Elisha foretold,
she gave birth the next year.
But unfortunately, something drastic happened.
The child grew up and one day went out to work with his father.
In verse 19, the boy complained of a headache
which led to his eventual death.
Oh my!
What would this woman do?
This was her only son.
Well, she had confidence in the man of the true God Elisha.
So, she says to her husband in verse 22,
send me, please, one of the attendants and one of the donkeys
and let me go quickly to the man of the true God and return.
In verse 23, her husband asks,
why are you going to see him today?
In other words, what can he do for us?
Note her response at the end of verse 23 and verse 24.
However, she said,
everything is all right.
So she saddled the donkey and said to her attendant,
go quickly.
Do not slow down for me unless I tell you to.
So this calm, trusting woman
rides about 19 miles or 30 kilometers
and finds Elisha and he ends up resurrecting her son.
Her trusting relationship and association with Elisha
had given her confidence.
Although she experienced a tragedy,
she knew that everything was all right.
Elisha's faith and confidence in Jehovah
helped this devoted woman also to remain calm
and confident when facing adversity.
At Isaiah 41-10,
note Jehovah's assurance,
do not be afraid for I am with you.
Do not be anxious for I am your God.
I will fortify you.
Yes, I will help you.
I will really hold on to you
with my right hand of righteousness.
So let's work hard to have unity of mind
with Jehovah's organization
by keeping calm and showing trust in Jehovah
and being confident that with Jehovah's help
everything will be all right.
That's a beautiful ingredient
in this recipe for spiritual success.
At 1 Peter 3.8,
Peter next mentions three more ingredients.
They are aspects of love,
fellow feeling,
brotherly affection, tender compassion.
These aspects of love convey empathy.
Empathy is the ability to understand
and share the feelings of another.
As this system draws to a close,
Satan will try to divide us from within.
So love for our brothers and sisters
and empathizing with one another
will become ever more important.
It will serve to unify us.
Think of the empathy of Jehovah's organization.
We all have personal challenges,
but so do our overseers,
those taking the lead in the organization here on Earth.
Some of them have lost loved ones in death,
just like us.
Some have experienced sickness and anxiety,
We love them for their empathy.
Think about the heavenly part of Jehovah's organization.
Since Satan's rebellion,
Jehovah has been disappointed,
saddened, angered,
at the actions of imperfect men.
These are real feelings
that our empathetic Heavenly Father possesses.
Jesus experienced similar disappointment and sadness
as he also saw the rebellion of Satan,
Adam, and Eve and what's resulted.
In fact, Jesus' understanding became deeper.
When he became human and began to experience human emotions,
the April 15, 2002 Watchtower article entitled,
Empathy, Key to Kindness, and Compassion.
Mention three ways we can sharpen our sensitivity
to the knees and feelings of others.
The first.
Listen.
By listening carefully,
we learn what problems others face.
And the better we listen,
the more likely they will open up their hearts
and reveal their feelings.
Second, observe.
Not everyone will openly tell us how they feel
or what they are going through.
A keen observer will notice
when a fellow Christian needs encouragement
or some practical assistance.
Third, use your imagination.
The most powerful way to stimulate empathy
is to ask yourself,
if I were in this situation,
how would I feel?
How would I respond?
What would I need?
So, fellow feeling,
brotherly affection and tender compassion
are aspects of loving empathy
and our valuable ingredients to our spiritual success
and will benefit others.
The final quality highlighted in First Peter 3.8
is humility.
Why do we need humility?
Because we need to trust.
Trust in Jehovah and His organization
requires humility,
not relying on our own strength or wisdom.
Humility helps us to cope
with whatever God permits.
When we face anxiety and pressure in our life,
we may yearn for immediate relief.
But humility helps us to trust
that Jehovah knows precisely when
and how to act in our behalf.
So, we wait patiently.
Jehovah always responds to our needs
in His time and in His way.
Humility helps us to admit
that Jehovah's thoughts are vastly superior to our own.
We recognize our limited discernment
in comparison with Jehovah's
all-encompassing perception.
He sees things we do not discern
and thus we trust that His way of doing things
is always best.
So, as the Great Tribulation approaches,
humbly trust in Jehovah and His organization.
First Peter, chapter 5,
and verse number 6 says this,
humble yourselves, therefore,
under the mighty hand of God
so that He may exalt you in due time.
Brothers, there is no better place to be
than under the mighty hand of God.
Humility is a beautiful ingredient
that helps us to remain there.
So, what were the ingredients in our recipe
for spiritual success?
First was unity of mind.
Be at unity with Jehovah's organization today
by keeping calm and showing trust.
In the words of the Shunamaid woman
in King's chapter 4,
when facing adversity always know that with Jehovah,
everything is all right.
Second was fellow feeling,
brotherly affection and tender compassion,
all aspects of loving empathy.
Remember, we're all in this together.
The celestial chariot is empathetic
toward what we face
and what we're drawn to our personal
and organizational needs.
Finally, try always to include humility
in your recipe for success.
Humility requires trust.
So, trust that Jehovah's way of doing things
is always best.
Psalm 119 verse 105 says
Bible is a lamp to my foot
and a light for my path.
So, take time to consider a portion
of God's word each day.
As situations, decisions, and challenges arise,
search for the right recipe,
Bible example, Christian quality, principal.
When you do,
write up the path ahead of you
and help you to be spiritually successful.
We've seen that the Bible's recipes
can make our life spiritually successful
and help us improve our relationships.
In the following interview,
note how applying a recipe of Bible principles
can also undo the damage caused by poor decisions.
We graduated in June,
got married in July,
had a child and of him.
Well, it was a happy time.
At one point,
two witnesses knocked on my door
and they showed me Psalm 83-18.
God's name is Jehovah.
They offered a Bible study
but my study only lasted two to three weeks.
We got a car.
We started going to parties,
starting to smoke,
have drugs, getting drunk.
We did all these things
that really tore our marriage apart.
We thought moving away from our town
and our old associates would help.
It was worse than ever.
Baseball was more important to me
than even my wife.
I had a real problem with headshot.
There were times when
I felt like I was smarter than him.
So I felt like I could make a better decision
than he could make.
In time,
Zaina left me
for another person
and that's
what really hurt me.
Zaina had a hard time
with drugs and so forth.
That's when I got custody of the kids.
I decided at that moment
I was done.
And Jehovah
popped into my head.
I remember
getting down
and telling Jehovah
just show me,
show me what to do.
I went through the telephone book
and looked up Jehovah's Witnesses.
They gave me a book,
a family life book.
I showed him that book
and I told him,
had we applied this
in our marriage
from the beginning,
our marriage would have never
broke up.
My mind was going
really, really,
but I see she was doing things
in a spiritual way.
She stopped doing drugs
and I just saw her
mannerism change
and that short period of time
things got better
and better.
And then I started studying
the Bible with Zaina.
That's when things start
click it.
One of the scriptures
that helped me to rebuild
our marriage
is first Corinthians
113.
Art is my head.
I am not the head.
Knowing that everybody
but Jehovah has a head,
I've used that
as a protection.
Now I don't have to make decisions
on my own.
Galatians chapter 5
verse 22, 23.
That helped me to show love
to be a better husband,
a better father
and I always
treated like a lady.
Listen to her viewpoints
and things like that.
I remarried Arthur
on April 2nd,
1979.
I would tell someone who is struggling
in their marriage now.
Apply
Bible principles.
Apply them.
We learn to be a family
with Jehovah
and that's why we can deal
with the problems
that we have to face
every day.
The second time around
is so much sweeter
with Jehovah
in the picture.
It's amazing, isn't it?
How learning and applying
Bible principles
and keeping Jehovah
in the picture
made such a difference
for art and Zana.
That's why we exert ourselves
to bring God's Word
to as many as possible.
This includes helping people
hear the truth
in the language of their heart.
I know you'll enjoy our next segment
on how a publishing innovation
invented by our brothers years ago
has accelerated the translation
of the good news
leading to the greatest
witness in history.
Jehovah's Witnesses
are known for publishing
in hundreds of languages.
With a website
recognized as the most widely
translated in the world.
But have you ever wondered
how we're able to release
our literature
and print it online
and so many languages at once?
The answer involves
a cutting-edge publishing system
that our brothers developed
more than 40 years ago,
a breakthrough in publishing
called Maps.
But just what is Maps?
Let's find out
and see how this technology
has helped to unite Jehovah's people
and has opened the way
for us to give
the greatest witness in history.
God's people
have long understood
the need to share the truth
in as many languages as possible.
Revelation 14.6
prophesied
that the good news
would be preached
to every nation
and tribe and tongue
and people.
So as far back
as the late 1800s,
the early Bible students
translated our literature
into languages other than English
so that people could learn the truth
in their mother tongue.
But for decades,
publishing the good news
in many languages
was a labor-intensive process.
Imagine yourself
working at a Bethel-Printry
decades ago.
It's hot
and loud.
Printing required
the use of a liner type machine,
which turned molten lead
into small metal slabs
of type,
called slugs,
one line at a time.
Workers had to
meticulously compose pages
by arranging the slugs
into large metal frames
that were used
to make special embossed mats.
Then more hot metal was used
to cast printing plates
from the mats.
And for long press runs,
the plates then
had to be electroplated
with nickel to harden them.
Finally,
after removing any irregularities,
the plates were ready
to be mounted
on a large rotary printing press.
Publishing the same material
in another language
meant repeating these pre-press steps
from beginning to end.
It took months
for a single magazine
to be translated
from English,
typeset,
and printed.
For books,
it could take years.
The days of hot metal
were quickly ending.
The printing industry
began adopting the use
of photo-type setting
and offset presses.
It was time
to modernize operations
at Bethel
and make the transition
to computers.
But the brothers faced
a unique challenge.
At this point,
we were already printing literature
in 167 languages.
So we needed a solution
that could handle all those languages
and more,
and not one
of the commercially available systems
could do that.
So in 1979,
a group of brothers and sisters
were called
to wash tower farms
in Wal-Kill, New York.
To develop a multi-language
electronic photo-type setting system,
or MEPs.
So we got to work
on building MEPs.
Some brothers and sisters
were treated on the hardware,
the actual circuitry,
other brothers
concentrated on the screen itself
and building that,
and then others of us
concentrated on the software,
the operating system,
you might say.
The MEPs team
designed and built
almost everything.
Computers,
keyboards,
screens,
and software.
They had to.
Personal computers
with the power needed
still weren't available,
and wouldn't be
for another few years.
Another massive part
of the project involved
creating the fonts.
The individual letters
used to make up the pages
of text.
Commercial fonts
weren't available,
or were too expensive
for many of the languages needed.
So brothers and sisters
had to draw each character
by hand,
and scan them into the computer.
For some languages,
this meant drawing
thousands of characters.
The software then had to be
programmed with all the rules
for spacing and hyphenation,
so that words and characters
could be displayed correctly.
Just three years
after the project began,
the first MEPs unit
was completed in 1982.
With MEPs,
an operator could enter text
at a computer workstation
in any supported language.
After this,
the workstation could be used
to format the text
and compose pages.
This approach
allowed the brothers
to use a single-page layout
to produce the same publication
for all languages.
The final pages were then rendered
on photographic paper,
transferred to film,
and used to make printing plates.
MEPs didn't do the translation
itself.
That was,
and still is,
a job for human translators.
But it allowed all the
pre-press work to be completed
in a fraction of the time.
And MEPs achieved
something even more important
than increased speed and efficiency.
It addressed a global
spiritual need.
Even before the MEPs
project began,
the governing body
realized
that if Jehovah's Witnesses
worldwide could somehow
study the same material
each week at meetings,
it would unite them
as never before.
And it was clear
that with MEPs,
along with faster presses
and other adjustments
in production,
this could finally
become a reality.
In fact, so much time
to be saved
in this projected operation,
that someday
we might be able
to bring out the rough path
in all principal languages,
with each data issue
containing
exactly the same
spiritual feed
for the brothers
all around the world.
The April 1st,
1984 issue of the Watchtower,
became the first
to be published
in multiple languages
simultaneously.
In just the next year,
the number of simultaneous
languages grew to 23,
and by 2021,
the study addition
of the Watchtower
was being published
simultaneously
in more than 390 languages.
Almost all
of Jehovah's Witnesses
are now able to study
the same spiritual food
at our meetings
at the same time,
truly a modern-day miracle.
Today, MEPs does a lot
more than typesetting.
It's grown
to become a full set
of publishing tools.
MEPs programming
paved the way
for Watchtower Library
on CD-ROM
and contributed
to the development
of the JW Library app.
In fact,
the MEPs acronym
now stands
for multi-language
electronic publishing system,
because it drives
our publishing
both imprint
and online.
In the end,
the story of MEPs
is more than a story
of technology.
It's one of love.
Love moved the governing body,
to seek better ways
to provide spiritual food
to people of every tribe
and tongue.
As a result of that love,
and with Jehovah's Holy Spirit,
we now enjoy unprecedented unity
and the ability
to preach the good news
on a scale
never before possible.
From molten metal slabs
of type
to computerized publishing,
the development of MEPs
has been a real blessing.
It's helped unify Jehovah's people
as we preach the good news
in all the inhabited earth
for a witness
to all the nations.
But what if we face a situation
where we personally began
to wonder
if Jehovah is blessing us?
Let's see how lessons
from the life of John the Baptist
can help us remain certain
of Jehovah's love
and protection.
I knew this day would come.
True Christians
expect opposition,
but it hurt to see
other vassals get arrested.
After what happened,
I was scared to talk
about Jehovah.
Marcos has been looking
for work for months.
It's starting to feel
hopeless.
I appreciate that he supports
me in the pioneer ministry.
But shouldn't he focus
on finding work?
I was so happy
when I heard Nicole
got invited to SKE.
But as I kept thinking
about it,
I started to feel
empty,
disappointed.
Other seemed to get
so many privileges.
Why not me?
In my Bible reading,
I found an example of courage
to preach boldly
despite opposition.
After I told Marcos
how I was feeling,
we considered a Bible character
who endured with hope.
Jesus said,
among those born of women,
there has not been raised
up anyone greater
than John the Baptist.
Many that listen to him
were moved to repent
and get baptized.
Preparing their hearts
to receive the Messiah,
he even baptized the
Son of God.
But as Jesus ministry increased,
John's began to decrease.
When his disciples pointed
that out to John,
he humbly rejoiced
at what Jehovah
was accomplishing through Jesus.
However, John faced adversity,
just like worshipers
of Jehovah today.
John was imprisoned
for boldly declaring the truth.
Nothing prevented him
from preaching courageously.
As time passed,
and he remained in prison,
John needed reassurance,
just like I do.
His disciples returned
with a message from Jesus.
Observe what Jehovah
is accomplishing around you.
Now I see what Jehovah
is accomplishing around me.
I can imitate John the Baptist,
and endure with hope.
I have so many reasons
to be joyful.
Among them,
seen Jehovah use others
to accomplish his will.
People need to learn about Jehovah.
Like John,
I can have courage,
no matter what adversity I may face.
Excellent lessons for us all.
One sister was overly concerned
about her husband finding employment.
But she later realized
the value of him keeping up
his spiritual routine
in the ministry with her.
Another sister felt empty
and disappointed.
But she learned to rejoice.
As did John,
in seeing Jehovah use others
to advance Kingdom interests.
And our brother,
who faced persecution,
learned to overcome his fear
and speak up.
Often in lands where our work is banned,
propaganda are spread
to justify persecution.
But it's not just in such lands
where we face false reports,
misinformation,
and outright lies.
In fact,
even though we bear the truth,
apostates and others
may cast us as dishonest,
as deceivers.
How can we respond
to that unfair treatment?
Let's listen to brother Seth Hyatt's
recent morning worship discussion,
speaking truth,
though labeled as deceivers.
Have you ever been confronted
by a bad report,
a false report
about Jehovah's people?
It may be a newspaper article
or a segment on the evening news
or perhaps some subject
is brought up in the ministry.
It could be a broad range of subjects.
Our neutral stand,
our stand on blood,
our adherence to Jehovah's elevated moral standards
and appreciation for the sanctity of marriage,
or our insistence
on keeping the congregation clean
by disfellowshipping unrepentant wrongdoers.
But whatever the subject,
there are some commonalities.
Such reports
are often characterized by distortions,
inaccuracies,
and sometimes outright falsehood.
And inevitably,
they're presented with certainty
and surety,
as though they were fact.
When you're confronted with such a report,
how do you feel?
Disheartened,
discouraged,
angry?
Consider the experience of a pioneer sister,
who was conducting a Bible study,
and in the course of conducting this study,
a woman walked into the house,
unannounced,
she didn't ring the doorbell,
didn't knock,
and as it turned out,
in a acquaintance of the student,
she walked right in
and erupted the Bible study,
and in her hand was a book,
written by a man
who at one time had associated
with Jehovah's people.
The woman said to the student,
you need to read this book,
reading conversation and sued,
and our sister found herself in the position
of being cast in the role of a deceiver.
How did she handle that situation?
And how did the Bible student respond?
Well, before we answer that question,
let's see how the words of today's text
and surrounding verses
that can help us to have the proper view.
Look if you would please
at 2 Corinthians chapter 6,
and notice verse 4,
Paul says in every way
we recommend ourselves as God's ministers.
Now what follows is a lengthy series
of circumstances and situations
that the Apostle Paul faced in his ministry,
and that faithful Christians
have faced in their ministry ever since.
In verse 7, the words of today's text,
we recommend ourselves as God's ministers
by truthful speech.
Well, we worship Jehovah,
the God of truth.
And we take delight in that.
And as our watchtower comment makes the point,
that we're truthful
in things big and small.
We love the truth.
We love telling the truth about Jehovah.
So it's interesting to note
Paul's words in verse 8.
He says through glory and dishonor,
through bad report and good report.
And then this intriguing statement,
we are regarded as deceivers,
and yet we are truthful.
Now that's an interesting paradox, isn't it?
To be truthful and yet cast in the role
of a deceiver.
When we are confronted with a negative report
that does that to Jehovah's people,
it's good to remember that Jehovah
was the first target of such an attack.
Look in your Bible at Genesis chapter 3,
beginning in verse 1.
Now the serpent was the most cautious
of all the wild animals of the field
that Jehovah had made.
So it said to the woman,
did God really say
that you must not eat from every tree of the garden?
Now we learned something about Satan's method.
He didn't begin with a statement.
He began with a question.
And not just a question.
A question that was designed
to sow seeds of doubt.
Did God really say that?
Now in verses 2 and 3,
the woman responds.
Toward the close of verse 3,
she actually quotes Jehovah's command.
You must not eat from it.
No, you must not touch it.
Otherwise, you will die.
So she understood the command
and she understood the penalty.
But notice in verse 4,
the serpent said to the woman,
you certainly will not die.
Now that was a lie,
but it was presented with certainty
and surety,
as though it were a fact.
And then in verse 5,
God knows that in the very day you eat from it,
your eyes will be opened
and you will be like God,
knowing good and bad.
Satan, the father of the lie,
cast Jehovah in the role of a deceiver.
Jesus experienced similar attacks
during his earthly ministry.
And the Apostle Paul was labeled
by his opposers as a deceiver.
So when we're confronted with negative faults,
reports, we're not surprised.
The question is,
how will we respond?
Have you ever considered some questions
that Eve could have asked herself
that would have helped her to make a good decision?
Here's one.
What do I know about the person
who is the source of this negative report?
What is his motive?
Does he have my best interests at heart?
Or does he have an agenda?
And another question.
Before I accept his truth,
a negative report from someone I don't know,
is there someone I do know,
someone I trust who I can talk with
and get some good advice?
Well, Eve certainly could have talked with her husband,
and together they could have talked with Jehovah.
And if Eve had asked herself those questions,
the world would likely be a much different place today.
But Eve chose to believe a lie.
How about the pioneer sister
and the Bible student that I mentioned earlier?
How did they handle the situation?
Well, the pioneer sister told us
that she reflected on the fact that she was a guest
in the Bible student's house.
And so she felt it would be rude
for her to interrupt the conversation,
so she chose to say nothing.
What did the Bible student do?
Interestingly, she asked the woman,
do you know the man who wrote that book?
No.
Do you know his motive for writing?
Why would he write such a book?
Well, I know this lady who comes
and studies the Bible with me,
and I know her motive is good,
so I don't think I need to read your book.
What a beautiful response.
The Bible student got it,
and we get it too.
We know, and we're not surprised,
that we will be the target of negative reports.
At times, we may even be cast in the role of deceivers.
And Jehovah has frankly told us
that there are some who are willing to exchange
the truth of God for the lie.
But that will never be true of you or me.
Instead, we hold to Jehovah the God of truth.
We continue to recommend ourselves as God's ministers
by truthful speech.
Next, let's benefit from the experience of a brother
who made significant life changes
when he accepted the truth only to slip back
and stray from it later.
Notice how Jehovah feels about those who stray
and how he extends his loving arm of assistance.
I grew up in the Highlands of Scotland.
It was a beautiful part of the world to grow up in,
but my father, when I was growing up,
him and his friends, they worked very hard,
but they also drank a lot.
There was a lot of violence and heavy drinking,
and of course, this sometimes came into home life as well.
By the time I was 14, I'd started drinking,
and sometimes I fought with my father and my stepfather.
It affected my self-esteem and my view of myself.
I often went to school feeling low and crashed,
but at times, the teachers started to read the Bible to us.
Those accounts touched me so deeply,
and it gave me real sense of hope for the future.
I didn't want to be fighting and getting into trouble.
I wanted to be a better person.
I had a purpose. I knew there was more to life than this,
and so I joined the army.
The army gave me the opportunity to get out of the environment
and to see the world.
Still, at the weekends, we often ended up
drinking too much and being violent.
When I got into trouble, I always felt deep regret.
I always wanted to change,
so I knew that I needed to escape from that environment
and start afresh, so I decided to move to Edinburgh.
I was really doing a lot of fitness training at this time,
but really what I had done was I had replaced one addiction
which was alcohol with another addiction which was fitness.
I was smiling on the outside, but I burnt out
that was in a black hole where I couldn't get out.
I knew that God was the only person that could help me,
and I prayed a lot during that time
so that He would help me to find happiness and a purpose in life.
A colleague came to work alongside me who had been in the Marines.
We had gone to a nightclub and on the way home,
I said that I didn't like this type of environment.
And to my surprise, this colleague of mine started to talk to me about the Bible.
But after two or three hours of my questions,
he said, I will get my dad to speak to you.
His father was one of Jehovah's Witnesses.
He gave me some publications,
and he encouraged me to read them alongside the Bible
looking up the verses in the Bible.
We started to study the Bible with his father.
We started to attend the meetings.
About one and a half years after we'd started,
both got baptized as one of Jehovah's Witnesses on the same day.
A few years after I got baptized,
I moved to Germany and during that time,
unfortunately I was disfellowship from the Christian congregation.
I went to work in the North Sea,
and I was so unhappy in this environment that when I was not working,
I was drinking a lot.
If I was not careful, I would end up doing myself some damage to my health.
So I decided to move to Italy.
Often when I was out riding my bike,
and every time I passed the Kingdom Hall,
I would ask the question,
how am I going to return to Jehovah?
I thought, well, Jehovah will never want me to come back.
One Saturday morning, the doorbell went,
sure enough, it was two of Jehovah's Witnesses.
I knew that Jehovah had sent these two witnesses,
and Jehovah was saying, I still love you, you know?
No matter what you have done, I still love you.
And so for the next few months,
I spent a lot of time thinking about that,
and accepting Jehovah's love.
I still had some distractions in my life.
I was training for a race across the Alps.
I was still working on the oil platforms in the North Sea.
I wasn't making spiritual progress.
One time, the elders in the Kingdom Hall told me
that there was no meeting during the week,
but they encouraged me to go to an assembly in Rome.
What really touched me the most was how clean Jehovah's people were,
compared to the people that I'd been associated in for so many years.
While I was driving home, I remember there was a storm.
I had all these thoughts racing through my mind.
How did I manage to leave the congregation?
How did I manage to leave Jehovah?
On that journey home, I knew that I would never go back to work
on the oil platforms in the North Sea.
I had a lot of free time on my hands,
so I read the Bible a lot,
and the publications from Jehovah's Witnesses.
And there was something in those publications that touched me
because it said, return to me, whole-sold.
Let's set matter straight between us now.
I spoke with the elders and told them of my intent
to attend all the meetings and to serve Jehovah whole-sold.
And after a period of time, I was reinstated in the congregation.
When I tried to do things my own way,
my life ended up out of balance, a mess.
I was so unhappy, but with Jehovah in my life,
it gave me more balance in my life.
It was about learning to accept Jehovah's love.
And when I did that, I started to make progress
because I was able to accept Jehovah's love,
but I was also able to accept the love through the brothers
and the congregation.
Jehovah's love is way greater than that.
And Jehovah's love is able to cover everything.
So I realized that Jehovah's wisdom is for me priceless
because Jehovah's the only one who can turn a negative situation
into something positive and give us a real sense of purpose
and hoppiness in our life.
Have you, like Brother McKay, straight?
Have you become inactive or even been removed from the congregation?
Consider the following invitation,
so warmly brought to life in our new music video, Home.
You can feel lost sometimes,
like I'm drifting out to see
when troubles in my life
take me far from kingdom realities.
But I'm never left in the lurch
Jehovah hears and sends out the sur.
He finds me,
lifts me up in his arms.
He can say,
brings me back to his fold,
my home, my family.
I am never alone.
When I'm home,
he's like this.
It's a shelter from the storm
where I find peace and rest
and loving friends will bring out the very best
so if you find your route on your own
Jehovah will hear your cries to call
serving him was your best choice.
Hold your home, your family.
You are never alone.
We're so happy to see you far
lifted you up.
Home is with Jehovah and his people.
Home is where we belong.
If you've wandered,
come home.
The beauty of our spiritual home extends across the entire world.
Let's explore another room in that home
by visiting our brothers and sisters in Suriname.
Suriname is a heavily forested country in South America
that's almost like an island.
It is currently connected by road to any other country.
On its east and west,
it's bounded by rivers
and on the north by the Atlantic Ocean
and to the south by tropical rainforests,
savannas, and the mighty Amazon River Basin.
While Suriname may be one of the smallest countries
in South America,
it's abundant wild areas host some of the continent's largest animals.
The giant ant-eater, for example,
eats some 35,000 ants in termites a day.
Also found in Suriname, the taper.
South America's largest land mammal.
And the Jaguar, the largest of South American cats.
Suriname's rich diversity isn't limited to wildlife.
Its people are one of the most ethnically diverse in the region.
They're varying customs and foods in rich the country's overall culture.
In such a heavily forested and diverse country,
imagine the challenge are over 3,300 brothers face, first reaching
and then reaching to people in their own languages.
While the official language of Suriname is Dutch,
the Suriname branch oversees translation
into five other languages.
Surin and Tango, Aachen,
Saramakan, Suriname Sign Language, and Karab.
In 2022, 20 translators in Suriname Bethel
worked with 13 full-time commuters
and eight remote workers to meet this need.
Let's meet some of our brothers working in the various language fields.
The 34 publishers in the Brownsweck congregation
speak the Saramakan language,
used by descendants of escaped slaves,
who fled to the country's interior almost 400 years ago.
The apura congregations, 18 kingdom preachers,
conduct 30 Bible studies each month.
Many in the area are Arawak Indians,
among the original inhabitants of Suriname.
Deep in Suriname's interior is the Pulugudu congregation,
located near Pulugudu Falls,
whose waters are notoriously difficult to navigate.
Our brothers are adept at using their wooden boats
to carry out the preaching work on the river roads.
The 38 publishers preach in the Maroon Aachen language.
The brothers and sisters of Suriname
and the Brownsweck,
Apura and Pulugudu congregations
send you their love.
From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.